[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 203 Introduced in House (IH)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 203

To amend Federal crime grant programs relating to domestic violence to
encourage States and localities to implement gun confiscation policies,
 reform stalking laws, create integrated domestic violence courts, and
hire additional personnel for entering protection orders, and for other
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 4, 2007

 Mr. Rothman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL



To amend Federal crime grant programs relating to domestic violence to
encourage States and localities to implement gun confiscation policies,
 reform stalking laws, create integrated domestic violence courts, and
hire additional personnel for entering protection orders, and for other
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Domestic Violence Victim Protection
Act''.

SEC. 2. ENCOURAGEMENT OF GUN CONFISCATION POLICIES IN DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
              CASES.

    Section 2101(c) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796hh(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (4);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5)(B)
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) certify that their laws or official policies--
                    ``(A) provide that a law enforcement officer who
                has probable cause that an act of domestic violence has
                been committed may--
                            ``(i) question persons present to determine
                        whether there are weapons on the premises; and
                            ``(ii) upon observing or learning that a
                        weapon is present on the premises, seize any
                        weapon that the officer reasonably believes
                        would expose the victim or any other household
                        member to a risk of serious bodily injury; and
                    ``(B) provide that a court, as part of the relief
                provided in a protection order--
                            ``(i) may order that the defendant is
                        prohibited from possessing any firearm or other
                        weapon; and
                            ``(ii) may order that any location may be
                        searched for such a weapon, and such weapon may
                        be seized, if the court has reasonable cause to
                        believe that a firearm or other weapon of the
                        defendant is at that location.''.

SEC. 3. ELIMINATION OF SPECIFIC INTENT TO CAUSE FEAR FROM THE ELEMENTS
              OF THE OFFENSE OF STALKING.

    Section 40602 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C.
14031) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Elements of Stalking Offense.--To be eligible to receive a
grant under subsection (a), a State or unit of local government shall,
in addition to the requirements of subsection (b), certify that its
laws or official policies relating to the offense of stalking require,
as elements of the offense, not more than the following: that the
defendant has on more than one occasion harassed or threatened the
victim.''.

SEC. 4. ENCOURAGEMENT OF INTEGRATED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE COURTS.

    Section 40412 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C.
13992) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' at the beginning;
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Integrated Domestic Violence Courts.--Training provided
pursuant to grants made under this subtitle may include training in the
context of establishing and maintaining courts that provide, wherever
practicable, for domestic matters (whether civil or criminal) that
arise out of the same family or domestic circumstance to be assigned to
a judicial unit for the processing of those matters on a coordinated
basis.''.

SEC. 5. HIRING AND MAINTAINING OF ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL FOR ENTERING
              PROTECTION ORDERS.

    (a) Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies.--Paragraph (12) of section
2101(b) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 3796hh(b)(12)) is amended by inserting ``, and to hire and
maintain additional personnel for entering information relating to
protection orders'' before the period.
    (b) Grants Relating to Stalking and Domestic Violence.--Section
40602 of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 14031) is
amended by striking the period at the end of subsection (a) and
inserting the following: ``, which may include hiring and maintaining
additional personnel for entering such data.''.
                                 <all>
